[MUSIC PLAYING]
[NARRATOR] Early DNA
results from Wawita
have determined
that she is female.
And carbon dating
from the samples
taken from Maria's finger,
matched the date of her body.
First, the team examines
new evidence presented
by Dr. Konstantin Korotkov.
In our research with Maria's
body, we had several steps.
Our first step was to
prove that it's real,
that it's not plastic.
It's not paper.
And it's ancient.
So we did carbon dating.
And then, of course, we did
analysis of structural body
from CAT scan and from X-ray.
So it was proven that
it's a real body.
But how was three fingers?
How was three toes?
Maybe this is artificial.
Maybe this is just
attached somehow.
I was able to get a
sample from a finger
and from a toe of Maria.
And we made extra
analysis of these samples.
And what is important, it was
proven that the same material.
It is same chemical composition.
It's same DNA.
So we have no doubts, now,
that three fingers, three toes,
it belongs to this body.
From the first DNA
analysis, it was proven
that it's not chimpanzee.
It's not a monkey.
But it's human-like DNA.
It was proven.
Because we know that
now we have three types
of human-like creatures, it
is Neanderthals, Cro-Magnons,
like ourself, and Denisovan.
With Denisovan men, they
had practically our skull,
our type of skull.
No big difference.
But it was proven that they
have different type of DNA.
So that's why they
would define this
another type of human beings.
Now, at the next
level, they have
to make much more
detailed analysis and much
more complicated analysis.
So they will create
a library of genes.
And then, they will be able to
compare this library of genes
with a database
of human subjects.
Then, we'll see whether
it is exactly human-like
or it is a little bit different.
[NARRATOR] While
the team anxiously
awaits DNA sequencing,
they are encouraged
with further examination
of Maria's CAT scans.
[DR. KOROTKOV] And what's
important from a CAT scan,
it is clear that all
internal organs was intact.
So it is possible
to see the heart.
It's possible to
see the stomach.
And it is possible to see
something left from the brain
as well.
So it is clear that she had the
same type of internal organs
that we do.
[NARRATOR] Peruvian
radiologist, Dr. Raymundo Salas,
who has been involved
with the investigation
from the beginning,
reviews some of the details
found in Maria's CAT scans.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
We are scientifically proving
that this body is a real body
that was once alive.
For example, here, we have
the teeth from the upper arch.
And here are the ones of
the lower arch, the skull
with remains of brain mass.
This part here, shows
the lungs at the side.
This is the heart with the
bronchus and the great vessels.
Lungs at both sides.
This is still the heart, and
here are the four cavities
and the bronchi
that are preserved
with the shape of the
respiratory system.
Now we are in the
abdominal cavity.
We have these images.
The lines are part
of the intestines
and relate to the structures
that build the abdomen.
It is completely harmonious.
[NARRATOR] Meanwhile,
the team focuses
on three new bodies
that were discovered
in the same location.
We have come to Peru one more
time because the discovery
of new bodies.
Three bodies that are
called, the family,
because it seems that there are
two adults and one younger one.
They are very, very similar.
Their face's are different.
The hair is a little
bit different.
But everything else, seems
to be absolutely the same.
We can see the skin here.
It's like a reptile
skin, like snake skin.
We can also see the fingers
with very long nails.
And other characteristics
like the bone
in front of the chest,
which is amazing.
We will make new CAT
scans and X-rays,
and to find out
through the experts,
the reality of this finding.
And if they can be
proved to be real,
then we will have now six
bodies of the same kind.
Enough evidence to
consider this case real.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
This is a scan of one
of the little mummies.
Each of these small
specimens have been analyzed,
and their bone density belongs
to that of a living being.
Its preservation is amazing.
Really surprising,
especially the
bone part of these
small creatures.
We see that the
base of the skull
has its own characteristics.
As we can scientifically prove,
the skull of these creatures
have a cranial cavity
similar to humans,
but they have some
strong differences.
These are the interior,
middle, and posterior fossa.
If we check these
little holes, we
see that the nerves and blood
vessels go through here.
Look, the cranial vault
and part of the brain.
This is the base of the
skull of this specimen.
This is the neck
and the backbone.
These are the collar bones
and the thoracic cavity.
This is the pelvis and part
of the arms at both sides.
Here, we have another image.
We can see the soft tissues.
This is a big surprise
about these small creatures.
Of course, they have existed.
This is not a fake.
[NARRATOR] X-rays and CAT
scans of these little bodies
have proven them to
be unique individuals
with similar characteristics.
The team worked with
animators to simulate
how these small creatures
may have gotten around.
They have three fingers and toes
and a large cranial capacity,
but do not appear to be human.
[JAIME] It proves that we have
two different kinds of beings.
One that is human
size and very similar,
except the head and
the hands and the feet.
And the other, which
is completely different
and looks more like a
reptile than a human man.
That's what we have right
now, two different species.
[NARRATOR] Coming up, will
DNA sequencing finally reveal
the nature of these mummies?
Plus, further study of
the elemental composition
from the samples taken.
There are two or more features.
One feature, it is cadmium.
And second feature is strontium.
But how they get it,
that's the big question.